CHAPTER 13
Paul discusses the high status of charity—
Charity, a pure love, excels and exceeds almost
all else.
1 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of
angels, and have not charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.
2 And though I have the gift of prophecy, and
understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and
though I have all faith, so that I could
remove mountains, and have not charity, I am
nothing.
3 And though I bestow all my goods to feed
the poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me
nothing.
4 Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity
envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is
not puffed up,
5 Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not
her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh
no evil;
6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the
truth;
7 Beareth all things, believeth all things,
hopeth all things, endureth all things.
8 Charity never faileth: but whether there be
prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be
tongues, they shall cease; whether there be
knowledge, it shall vanish away.
9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in
part.
10 But when that which is perfect is come,
then that which is in part shall be done
away.
11 When I was a child, I spake as a child, I
understood as a child, I thought as a child: but
when I became a man, I put away childish
things.
12 For now we see through a glass, darkly; but
then face to face: now I know in part; but
then shall I know even as also I am known.
13 And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these
three; but the greatest of these is charity.